# Variables
Simplest possible variable declaration uses `let` keyword and looks like following:
```rust
let x = 5;
```

By default, variables are immutable, and `x`'s value cannot be changed. For example, the following on compilation will give us the following error:

```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    println!{"The value of x is: {x}"};
    x = 6;
    println!{"The value of x is: {x}"};
}
```

Error:
```sh
$ cargo run     
   Compiling variables v0.1.0 (../rust_notes/ch3/variables)
error[E0384]: cannot assign twice to immutable variable `x`
```

To declare a variable as mutable, add `mut` in front of the variable name:

```rust
let mut x = 5;
```

Making the required changes in the `variable.rs`, we see the following:

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut x = 5;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
    x = 6;
    println!("The value of x is: {x}");
}
```

Variables are:
1. Initialized using the `let` keyword.
2. Can optionally have type annotation. If a type is not specified, rust compiler will try to infer its type.
3. Cannot be declared in global scope.

# Constants
Like variables constants are values bound to name, but they are a few differences:
1. They are initialized using the `const` keyword
2. Their data type must always be annotated
3. They are always immutable and you cannot use `mut` in their declaration
4. They can be initialized in the global scope, although they are bound by the scope they belong in
5. Their values must be computable in Runtime

```rust
const THREE_HOURS_IN_SECONDS : u32 = 3 * 60 * 60;
fn main() {
    println!("There are {THREE_HOURS_IN_SECONDS} seconds in 3 hours");
}
```

# Shadowing
You can declare a new variable with the same name as previous variable. When
this happens the older variable is said to have been shadowed by the new one.
The shadowing is applicable for both mutable and immutable variables.

> A more proper term would have been "overshadowing".

Going back to our `variables.rs`:

```rust
fn main() {
    let x = 5;
    let x = x + 1;
    {
        x = 2 * x; // x is now equal to 12
    }
    println!('{x}'); // x is now equal to 6
}
```

We are effectively creating a new variable, when shadowing. This helps us write
concise code without having to think of new variable names. For example,

```rust
let spaces = "    "
let spaces = spaces.len();
```
The first `spaces` variable is of `string` type and the second is a number.
