# Type Annotations
Rust is statically typed, which means that it needs to know the type of each
variable and function at compile time.

The compiler can infer what the variable type is going to be based on how it is
used in the rest of the program. But in cases where it cannot infer it, we use
type annotations like below:

```rust
let x: u32 = "42".parse.expect("Not a number!");
```

Type Annotations is how to specify the type of a variable in Rust.

Let's look at two Data Type subsets:
1. Scalar
2. Compound

# 1. Scalar Types
Rust has 4 Primary Scalar Types:

a. Integers b. Floating-point Numbers c. Boolean d. Characters

## A. Integers
Signed integers start with `i` and unsigned with `u`. We can use any of the
following integer types:

i8,i16,i32,i64,i128 and isize. The number reflects size in bits, and there are
`u` counterparts for all of them.

Signed integers are stored in 2's complement representation and can store from
-2^(n-1) to 2^(n-1) -1 numbers.

| Length  | Signed | Unsigned |
| :-----: | :----: | :------: |
|  8-bit  |   i8   |    u8    |
| 16-bit  |  i16   |   u16    |
| 32-bit  |  i32   |   u32    |
| 64-bit  |  i64   |   u64    |
| 128-bit |  i128  |   u128   |
|  arch   | isize  |  usize   |

> Because most machines are 64-bit these days, whenever you see `isize` or
> `usize`, think '64-bit'!

Different ways of writing integers:

| Number literals |   Example   |
| :-------------: | :---------: |
|     Decimal     |   98_222    |
|       Hex       |    0xff     |
|      Octal      |    0o77     |
|     Binary      | 0b1111_0000 |
| Byte (u8 only)  |    b'A'     |

> Byte is `u8` only because a\) Bytes are 8-bits wide and b\) Not sure why it
> cannot be `i8` as well given that extended ASCII is 255 characters.

### Integer Overflow
If you build your app without `--release` flag, Rust will place checks for
Integer Overflow (for example, when `i8` value goes over 255). Upon hitting such
overflow, the check will cause the program to `panic!` and error out.

However, this check is not put in place when compiling with `--release` flag. In
which case, the value will simply wrap around. 256 will become 1, 257 2 and so
on.

There are methods in standard library to handle these exceptions.

## B. Floating-Point Types
Rust also has two primitive floating point types. `f32` and `f64`

```rust
fn main() {
    // addition
    let sum = 5 + 10;

    // subtraction
    let difference = 95.5 - 4.3;

    // multiplication
    let product = 4 * 30;

    // division
    let quotient = 56.7 / 32.2;
    let truncated = -5 / 3; // Results in -1

    // remainder
    let remainder = 43 % 5;
}
```

Each expression in these statements uses a mathematical operator and evaluates
to a single value, which is then bound to a variable.

## The Boolean Type
1. A Boolean type in Rust has two possible values: `true` and `false`.
2. Booleans are 1 Byte in size.
3. Booleans are specified using `bool` keyword.

E.g.,

```rust
fn main(){
    let t = true;
    let f: bool = false; //with explicit type annotation
}
```

Boolean types are primarily used in conditionals, such as an `if` expression.

## The Character Type
Rust's `char` type is the language's most primitive alphabetic type. Example,

```rust
fn main() {
    let c = 'z';
    let z: char = 'ℤ';
    let cat_with_heart_eyes = '😻';
}
```

1. `char` literals are specified with single quotes, as opposed to string
   literalsm which use double quotes.
2. `char` is 4 Bytes in Rust and represents a Unicode Scalar value.
3. Unicode Scalar values range from `U+0000` to `U+D7FF` and `U+E000` to
   `U+10FFFF` inclusive.
4. A "character" isn't really a concept in Unicode, so human intuition for what
   a "character" is may not match up.
More in chapter 8.

# Compound Types
*Compound types* can group multiple values into one type. Rust has two primitive
compound types: **tuples** and **arrays**
